UW id is `g66xu`

# Problem 5

## a)
$A(k, x) = F(k, x) \Vert F(k, x)$ is not indistinguishable from truly random functions because for $A$ the **first half and the second half of the output is always identical** while in a truly random function, having identical halves is overwhelmingly unlikely.

We can construct an adversary who outputs "not random" if the first half of $A(k, x)$ is identical to the second half of $A(k, x)$. By the argument above, this adversary has overwhelming advantage.

## b)
$B(k, x_1 \Vert x_2) = F(k, x_1) \oplus F(k, x_2)$ is not indistinguishable from truly random function under CPA because **if the two halves of the input are identical, then the output of the function is guaranteed to be all 0's**.

We can construct an adversary who queries the output of some $x_0 = x_0[0] \Vert x_0[1]$ such that $x_0[0] = x_0[1]$. If the returned result is all 0's then the adversary claims the challenge output to be non-random. The probability that this adversary is wrong is the probability that a truly-random string has all 0's, which is overwhelmingly unlikely, so this adversary will have overwhelming advantage.

## c)
$C(k, x) = F(k, 0 \Vert x) \Vert F(k, 1 \Vert x)$ is a secure PRF.

First, because $F$ is indistinguishable from a truly random function, we can replace $F$ with a truly random function $G$ in the construction of $C$. In other words $C^\prime(k, x) = G(k, 0 \Vert x) \Vert G(k, 1 \Vert x)$ is computationally indistinguishable from $C(k, x) = F(k, 0 \Vert x) \Vert F(k, 1 \Vert x)$. It remains to show that $C^\prime$ is indistinguishable from truly random function.

Notice that $0 \Vert x$ and $1 \Vert x$ are never equal, so the outputs of $G(k, 0 \Vert x)$ and $G(k, 1 \Vert x)$ are guaranteed to be independently sampled random outputs by the definition of a truly random function. We claim without proof that the concatenation of two independent random sample is itself statistically indistinguishable from a truly random sample from the concatenation space. Therefore, $C^\prime$ itself is indistinguishable from a truly random function.